# Contributing Guide

Thank you for showing interest in contributing to this project. This guide provides some basic guidelines for doing so.

## Contents

- [Contributing Guide](#contributing-guide)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Contributions to the public docs](#contributions-to-the-public-docs)
  - [Contributing to the codebase](#contributing-to-the-codebase)
  - [Submitting a Pull Request](#submitting-a-pull-request)
  - [Contributors](#contributors)

## Introduction

Before you start, you might find it helpful to read the [TypeDoc development guide](https://typedoc.org/guides/development/) to understand the architecture of TypeDoc itself.

## Contributions to the public docs

Contributions to the public facing documentation hosted at https://typedoc-plugin-markdown.org welcome.

The site is built on [Nextra](https://nextra.site/docs) and you can edit the mdx files located at [docs folder](https://github.com/typedoc2md/typedoc-plugin-markdown/tree/main/docs) of the repo.

Please note that the API docs (`/pages/api-docs`) are autogenerated and should not be edited from the location.

When submitting a PR please use commit message in the format `chore(docs): improved getting started docs`

## Contributing to the codebase

For contributing to the plugin codebase, please see the [Developer Documentation](./developer-docs/README.md) for detailed information about the codebase and development practices.

All contributions are welcome and appreciated. If something does not make sense please do not hesitate to [ask for help](/discussions/categories/help).

## Submitting a Pull Request

Once you're ready to submit your changes:

- **Push your branch**: Push your branch to your forked repository on GitHub.
- **Create a PR**: Navigate to the original repository and create a PR from your branch to the main branch.
- **Provide a clear description**: Include a detailed description of your changes, why they're necessary, and any issues they resolve.
- **Link to relevant issues**: If your PR addresses any open issues, mention them in the description.

Please note we follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) for commit messages.

The commit message should be in the form:

`fix(core): resolve issue with table rendering (#100)`

## Contributors

Thank you to all the people who have already contributed to typedoc-plugin-markdown.
